Who were the playmates that were numerous enough
for you to play a baseball game or basketball?
Well, on the block that we lived on, there were two
duplices that were reserved,
I guess, for the military people. And from time to
time, there were, I can remember three. families
that lived next door to us in one of the duplexes
that all had two or three children. There was
Captain Lines and Major Stickney and Captain
Marcus and all of them, they all had children. And
they'd be there three, four, five years and then
the military would be transferred. But some of the
ones that were raised There was Brooks Colfer, who
lived down the street. John Sandstedt, Dillard
Spriggs, and Joe Orr. All of them were the sons and
daughters of faculty members. In terms of the
social status on the campus, was there any part of
the campus where there was greater prestige of
living here than living there? Well, I suppose,
looking back on it, there was, but it never
occurred to me that we weren't as good or as bad as
anybody else, you know? And we lived in a, I guess
the college position would be one of the more
prestigious positions, and we lived next door to
him, you know? next on the other side dean marsh
steller of dean of the veterinary school and next
door to him was dean kyle the head of the dean of the
ag the school of agriculture and so you know that we
we live right there in that neighborhood uh the
president of the college lived uh half a block from
us so uh you know and i said i said i suppose there
were I know that most of the men that worked in the
building college utilities, the painters, the
plumbers, and the carpenters, and the people that
ran the power plant and all, lived in the area near
the power plant, but it didn't occur to me that that
was any, a blue collar area, but looking back on it,
they lived over there because that's where they
were. Where they lived in the area of the BNCE
department. There was an area where Dean Bolton
lived and the commandant, whoever happened to be
commandant at that time, and the deans of several
other areas.
Dr. Gammon, who was I guess he was the history
department chairman. In those days, I guess they
were departments, weren't they? The history
department. He was the chairman of the history
department. Dr. Liam, I think, was the
accountant.
Knox Walker's daddy. I guess he was Knox Walker,
too.
If I'm not mistaken, was in charge of all the
building the engineering for Prairie View and
Tarleton. He lived on the Indian campus. Did you
have a special buddy? Well, I spent more time with
Jack Marsh because he lived next door, and he's a
bit older. That was attractive to me. Now, where
could you and your brother and three or four
others, what did you all do, if anything, for
mischief? Well, I remember one time we were going
to have a war with all the kids that lived off the
campus in College Park. And we, the marshes had a
big, they had an old barn behind the house that had
been converted into a garage, but still had a loft.
And we armed the loft with China berries and all
sorts of stuff and waited for them to attack us. But
they didn't, they didn't show up and that
afternoon we wound up having a touch football game
on the field. So I guess the war, but we, I don't
know, we played cowboys and Indians and cops and
robbers.
What were the, were there any in your family Were
there any rules, any forbidden things that y'all
were to do on the campus? Well, we weren't supposed
to go in the dormitories. I remember that on
Sunday, if we didn't go to Sunday school and we
didn't go to church, we didn't go to free show and we
didn't play touch football.
I remember I At one point, I decided that I wasn't
going to Sunday school to church. I said, okay,
stay home. And when my folks got home that
afternoon, or at noon from church, we had lunch,
and so I got ready to go to the movie, and they wanted
to know where I thought I was going. I said, I was
going to the free show. They said, you didn't go to
Sunday school? You didn't go to church? I said, I
had no free show for you this afternoon. No
football, and I had a pretty difficult time.
If they didn't have a touch football game on Sunday
close to the house, I didn't get to play. I couldn't
go. There's nearly always a touch football game
somewhere around Kyle Field, and on Sunday
afternoon I couldn't go. I remember one time, I
was, when I was a freshman at A&M that first summer,
I had walked on, and the football team, we
practiced all summer long. There were, I guess
during the war, there were no particular rules
about it. And Coach Norton had put in the
T-formation. That was the first time they'd ever
used the T-formation. Dick Todd, who was an
All-American at one time, was playing for the Iowa
Seahawks. And he got a weekend pass and came down to
do some special work with us. And Coach Norton, he
was going to be there Friday, Saturday, and
Sunday. And he wanted us to work out on Sunday. And I
had an awful hard time asking my dad. on Sunday, but
he didn't seem to, I don't know whether he minded or
not, but he didn't object. Right now, when you're
in junior, senior high, got a bicycle, where would
y'all ride off to? I'd
maybe go to Kyle Field. Because there wasn't a
creek anywhere nearby to go swimming or fishing.
Well, we'd We went fishing in the zoo lake once in a
while. The zoo, do you remember where the creamery
used to be?
West of the creamery. That one time there was a zoo.
They had lions and tigers. And they had dug out an
old U-shaped lake. And in the U, the YMCA had built a
canyon. In fact, they took three of the shacks that
the students used to live in and put them together
in the form of a T. And that was the Y cabin. The Y
cabin. And it was later, if I'm not mistaken, moved
to Hensel Park and named Cashin cabin. I think it's
been remodeled, but it's still named Cashin
cabin. Anyway, there was a lake that had some perch
in it and we used to, my dad loved to fish. And we'd go
down there and fish with the cane and pole. And that
was where he had his steak fries for his YMCA
cabinet and other student groups. In today's
terms, how diverse was the population that you
remember of campus and friends and NM Solid Age
students? Not diverse at all. So no Hispanics, no
blacks? The blacks were the ones that I knew worked
as servants. Cooks,
maids, the main ones that I knew that I knew best
worked in the hospital. Where did they live? Well
behind each house on the campus there was a small
one-room house that was made available to these
people. Most of them live along Weldon Road from
Uncle Ed's Beer Joint south
till the highway across the railroad track. There
was a whole area just small houses that primarily
black people lived in. I remember they had
a, just a beer jar called the Green Lantern. And it
was about halfway between what's now the corner of
Bush Drive and Weldon Road and The highway used to
go on the east side of the railroad
down to about where 2818 crosses, and then it
crossed over and went on the west side until it got
to Welber, and then it crossed back over and went on
the east side to Milliken. And all on that, where
the highway was on the east side, were just small
houses that were primarily black people. You
mentioned Uncle Ed's. Was Uncle Ed's there as
early as you can remember? Describe it and what it
was and who went there. I never did go in Uncle Ed's
very often, but it was a beer joint. The nearest
thing I think of right now would be a convenience
store or an ice house. They had that little room
where you They had some tables and the guys could
get beer there. I guess in that precinct, they sold
beer. And as far as you know, it was legal. Yes, it
was legal. It was legal and he had a grocery store
and that's where the people that lived down there
bought their groceries from Eiffel Head and I'm
sure he had some sort of a charge account with them.
Now, was this, was he Herdlicka? Is it Ed
Herdlicka? Yeah, I will call it Hardlicka. I don't
know. Okay, that's what I was going to say.
H-R-D-L-C-K-A or something. So that, because
I've heard some people refer to Hardlickers, and
so Uncle Ed's is the same. Now, did people go there,
as far as you know, and really get drunk, or did they
go and have a beer or two? Probably both. Okay.
Probably both. You know, in the song that was
written for the Aggieland Orchestra about I'd
rather be a Texas Aggie, one of the phrases in
there, we'll go to Uncle Ed's and drink our cares
away, that's what they're talking about. Was, as
far as you know, if an Aggie had a date, would it have
been acceptable to take the date to Uncle Ed's? Or
was it pretty well a male only? Well, I'm sure it was
pretty well male only, because there were only
males on the campus, you know, for the most part.
And I really can't tell you a whole lot about it,
because I was, I mean, I didn't go to that kind of
place as a child, you know, obviously. Now, you
mentioned another place down the... The Wilburn
Road. Well, the Green Ladder, but that was the
Black Force. Oh, okay. That was their beer joint.
Okay. Was there, there was nothing on the East Gate
to speak of, was there? The East Gate, no, there was
no East Gate until they built Highway 6. But I mean,
by World War II. By World War II, they had that East
entrance, yes. But was there any kind of... Well,
there were, let's see, out on the highway, there
were two service stations that I can remember. The
first one was Grant's Gulf Station, and it's on the
corner where the Chevron Station is now next to the
High Rise Hotel. It was Grant's Gulf. Right across
the street, there was a Phillips Station. And down
the highway south, just between there and the
entrance, there was Black's Pharmacy. And there
was a, there were two services out there, Texaco
and Exxon. I was a homeboy at that time. And there
was a hamburger joint out there called,
let's
see, what was his name? I can't remember that now.
It may come to me. He had just a small building out
there about where, you
know,
somewhere, it was right on the highway, but it was
about where Barnes and Noble is, somewhere along
in there. It was just a hamburger joint, a beer
joint. All right, go to Northgate. What was at
Northgate when you were high school, junior, and
senior high? Northgate, there were two drug
stores on the corner. Maidley's Pharmacy and the
Aguland Pharmacy. Wait, at Northgate,
Maidley's? Oh. No, no, no, no, no. Not Maidley's.
It was Lipscomb. I'm sorry. Lipscomb. Maidley was
at the Southgate. But the Aguland Pharmacy was the
first one. And it's the photo shop. Mm-hmm. And
then
Dr. Lipscomb may have had a hand in building it. And
then he later built another Lipscomb Pharmacy
right across the street. Where Lupo is. Right. Was
Lou in business then? Lou was in business sometime
in the 30s. But there was a little building. down
toward the campus theater. It was separate, just a
little wooden building, separate. In the block
there where the Lipscomb Pharmacy was, behind it,
there was,
what was the man's name that made uniforms?
I can't remember his name, but then there was the
grocery store back there, Luke and Charlie's
Grocery Store, and the photo shop, I mean,
Hollick's. Soslick's. Soslick's Photography
was on the farm. Across the street there was the
Hollick's Boot Shop, Lauterstein's Cleaners,
and I can't think of the man's name that was the
tailor. But he, one of the things that we all, he
tailor-made
military slats. And most of us were pretty pencil
thin, and he built, he did, I can't think of what his
name was now, but he was there for years and years.
And then the, in terms of the churches, the Baptist
and... The Baptist church was on, were behind, on
the right side, across the street from the Church
of Christ. And then the Methodist Church was
behind the Baptist Church. The Catholic Church
was on down the street.
And for the most part, these were separate
buildings. You know, I mean, A.M. Waldrop had a
uniform shop there, and a barber was a barber shop
next to the Agland Inn, I mean, Agland Pharmacy.
barbershop and then A.M. Walters Uniform and
there was a jewelry store next to the barbershop.
Now let's see, let's go back to your high school.
You all had football, organized football team at
the high school? Football, I think the first year
was in 1935 or 6. And who played? The
first game that was ever played was against Willow
Hole. And Willow Hole was a rural school just south
of . The church is still there. Willow Hole Baptist
Church is still there. And there was a school
there. And the first game that Consolidated ever
played was at Senior Field, Willow Hole, and I had a
ticket.
Do you remember any discussion as to how the mascot
was selected? They were the Tigers. One thing
that's kind of interesting though, of course the
colors were maroon and white,
At one time, the A&M annual was the longhorn, and
the annual for the skills was the shorthorn. And
then they changed it to the Aggieland, and they
changed the one that consulted it to the
Tigerland. Okay. Now, were they playing
basketball and baseball before football? No, no.
So that sports... and see it, and then they had a
basketball team, but they didn't have a gym. And so
the only practice that we got was the A&M down by
DeWare Field House, there was a wooden gym, they
called it the Little Gym. It had three or four
handball courts and a basketball court. And we
practiced in the Little Gym When we could, but they
used it for intraburals and so on, and so sometimes
it got to be just on the weekend.
And the basketball season consisted of about
eight or ten games, if I'm not wrong. And football,
we also, we played, one year we played marquee for
the district championship. And Marquette had a
team, Jewett. Those two schools are consolidated
now, Leon. And we played Buffalo. We played, the
first game I ever played in was at Dayton, Texas. We
went down to Dayton and played then. Now with that,
were y'all class B? We were class B and I think at
that time there were only maybe two or three
classes. Double A, A and B is all I knew of. As a Class
B school, we only played by district. The first
year I was in high school, the district was divided
into two zones. We won the South Zone. The South
Zone was Consolidated, and Snook, and Beat Eyes,
and Owl, and North Zoo. And in the north end of the
zone, there was Jewett, Marquet,
Buffalo,
and maybe Normandy, I'm not sure. But anyway, we
played Marquet in Bryan at the old Forest Stadium
in Bryan. And Marquet beat us. And the next year,
the next year we played Buffalo in Madisonville
for the district championship. And we beat
Buffalo and played Wortham in the bi-district and
they beat us. And then in the next two years we won
bi-district. Now, where in high school, where did
y'all have social events like a senior prom or a...
Well, I remember the We didn't have a prom, but we
had a banquets. Junior senior banquets. Where
would you have that? My junior year, we had it in the
library study hall. A study hall was probably the
size of two classrooms and a library on one end of
it. Oh, in the old high school building. Okay, on
campus. Right, on campus. My senior year, they had
built a gym, and so we had the junior-senior
banquet in the gymnasium. In the new A&M Salt Lake
building off campus? Well, the gym has been torn
down. No, but I mean it was new then. Yes, it was new
then. All right. When you and your buddies wanted
to have a social Saturday night in high school,
where did you all go? Generally... If we didn't go
to somebody's house, we went to a movie. Probably
Brian, the Palace Theater, or the Campus Theater,
which was open in those days. And that was
primarily the dates. We'd go to a movie and then,
you know, to a drive-in. or to somebody's house. We
did lots of socializing in people's homes. Now, as
far as you recall, what were
the boundaries of adult, talking about your
parents now, of adult conduct then for faculty and
staff members? What are the things that they just
did not, wouldn't have thought about doing?
Well, let me see. I don't know. I guess I can only
speak for my own parents. I never saw them take a
drink. They may have, but there never was any
liquor of any sort in our home. As far as you know,
when they went to someone else's, was it similar?
Yes, as far as I know. That's what I understand. You
know, the kinds of things they did were also in
people's homes. They played lots of dominoes, 42.
Were there any games that just, did they ever play,
did they play cards? Yeah, they played cards.
Bridge? Bridge, there was bridge and pinochle.
Did anybody ever play any games for money? If they
did, I didn't know. Okay. Did they go to, did they go
to dances?
Well, I think, if I'm not mistaken, they
chaperoned some of the Nazis.
Occasionally, I can remember a time or two, my
folks going to some sort of social functions that
were more than just visiting somebody's home, but
I can't tell you what they did. Divorce. I didn't
know anybody at the board. And I didn't know any
women that I didn't know any women that smoked.
There was an awful lot of social activity with
churches.
The women's circles and that sort of thing were the
circle meetings once a month were big social
things. Were there any allegations as to which
church denomination was favored at A&M? Not that I
know of. They
had a big group, you know, and the Presbyterian
church was
pretty noticeable because they met on the campus.
And as far as I know there was no stigma to the
church, giving preference to one or the other. And
as I recall, but I'm not sure what the procedure
was, but at one time, I think they had a chapel. And
the students were required to attend chapel. But I
don't know who ran it. Now, who was the president of
A&M when you were growing up? Well, Dr. Walton, for
the most part, and then Gib Gilchrist. Describe
President Gilchrist, or Dean Gilchrist. He
wasn't first. Dean Gilchrist, yes. Well, Dean
Gilchrist was quite an imposing figure. He was
tall, and I guess he was pretty stubborn. one of the
things that everybody held against him was he went
to the University of Texas.
But he ran things pretty much with an iron fist. You
know the story about his, right after the war,
there seemed to be between the corps and the
non-corps,
the veterans. And the corps, I don't remember
exactly what it was all about, but the officers
were gonna resign and they marched to the
president's home and gave him an ultimatum and he
said, well, wait a minute, guys. put a box out
there, put all your buttons and diamonds in the box
and go back home, go to class. And he took their
resignation, his officers in the Corps stopped
the revolt, whatever it was. And I'm not
absolutely sure that what I've said is correct for
the record, but I think it's pretty well
documented. Something like that happened. Of the
presidents that your dad dealt with, did he have
any favorite that he respected most? Well, of
course, there was some tie. My mother and Gib
Gilchrist's families went back to Willisville.
Oh, that's right. That's right. And so I don't
suppose there was any favoritism, but from a
family standpoint, we were closer to the
Gilchrist than we were to the Wildcats. Because, I
mean, my mother and Gibb Gilchrist were... Henry
is... Henry's the son. He's... I think Henry's two
years older than I am. He was two years ahead of me in
consolidation. Because he has told me, I haven't
interviewed him yet, but just in conversation, he
said when they moved here, I believe he said he was
13... and his dad robbed him by buying him a new
bicycle. Oh, really? And he thought, by
comparison with the new house they left in Austin,
that he had moved to a little old bitty country
town. And he said at first it was hard for him to
get... I can see why he moved from Austin to College
Station. You'd think he moved to... Well, it
probably was a country town. When...